---
Title: Teaching: New course in Robot learning
Date: 2021-09-09 10:20
Modified: Wednesday, 10. Sep 2021 02:06PM 
Category: Teaching
Tags: Reinforcement Learning, Robot Learning, 
Author: Glen Berseth
Authors: 
Cover: Machine Learning for Robotics!
summary: Learning methods such as deep reinforcement learning have shown success in solving simulated planning and control problems but struggle to produce diverse, intelligent behaviour, on robots. This class aims to discuss these limitations and study methods to overcome them and enable agents capable of training autonomously, becoming learning and adapting systems that require little supervision. By the end of the course, each student should have a solid grasp of different techniques to train robots to accomplish tasks in the real world. These techniques covered in the course include but are not limited to reinforcement learning, batch RL, multi-task RL, model-based RL, Sim2Real, hierarchical RL, goal conditioned RL, multi-Agent RL, the fragility of RL, meta-level decision making and learning reward functions.
comments: true
Type: Deep Reinforcement Learning
TitleShort: 
---

I will be teaching a course on robot learning, starting in January 2022! This course will focus on deep reinforcement learning methods and their application to robotics. <a href="https://diro.umontreal.ca/public/FAS/diro/Documents/1-Programmes-cours/Horaires/cours2022Hiver2Cyc.html">Here</a> is a link to where you can find the course offered on the DIRO web page as IFT 6095. If you are interested in taking the course please fill out <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfIRV0HHrk50cVoiWfFkQ0YVT0YYEQ2WLoWIrft5ZGzgUgOoQ/viewform?usp=sf_link">this form</a> as well.

Learning methods such as deep reinforcement learning have shown success in solving simulated planning and control problems but struggle to produce diverse, intelligent behaviour, on robots. This class aims to discuss these limitations and study methods to overcome them and enable agents capable of training autonomously, becoming learning and adapting systems that require little supervision. By the end of the course, each student should have a solid grasp of different techniques to train robots to accomplish tasks in the real world. These techniques covered in the course include but are not limited to reinforcement learning, batch RL, multi-task RL, model-based RL, Sim2Real, hierarchical RL, goal conditioned RL, multi-Agent RL, the fragility of RL, meta-level decision making and learning reward functions.

##Target and objectives of the course

Learn the fundamental concepts of machine learning for robotics applications. Such concepts are considered advanced and require a good foundation in machine learning, deep learning and reinforcement learning. This involves: 

- Becoming familiar with the main types of machine learning models for a control policy (from model-based to model-free)
- Developing the ability to read research articles, contextualize them and develop a critical mind;
- Develop presentation skills;
- Develop their research autonomy in machine learning.
- Develop skills related to the strengths and weaknesses of current machine learning methods when being applied to real-world problems.


## Lectures covering topics related to learning robots as well as programming assignments and a final project.

The objectives of the assignments and final projects will be: 

- Software knowledge: Learning about the available software that is used for deep reinforcement learning.
- Analysis skills: Collecting proper statistics of results and using server computers and docker to reproduce experiments and validate results.
- Proposal of a new idea to explore for the final project based on the lectures;
- Learn how to understand the potential of a method in the real world (positive or negative, social and environmental);
- Exploration with final project: More free-form investigation of advanced topics from class that produces reusable code, reproducible results and a written report.
- Estimation of the impact that the new idea could have in an industrial context;

The final project will be achieved as a team of two. Research in academia and industry involves working with others to achieve research goals. This project will evaluate the students’ ideas, research process understanding, teamwork, and presentation.

Regarding the lectures, the instructor will provide live lectures on the topics each week, focusing on their understanding, application, and limitations.

## EVALUATIVE APPROACH AND WEIGHTING (indicative only)
- 40%: Programming assignments (2). (This is needed to provide skills necessary to perform a good final project in the class)
- 20%: Class participation and discussing readings.
- 40%: Final project
